docs/index.md, before:

# MQT Core - The Backbone of the Munich Quantum Toolkit (MQT)

The MQT Core library forms the backbone of the quantum software tools developed as part of the _{doc}`Munich Quantum Toolkit (MQT) <mqt:index>`_ by the [Chair for Design Automation](https://www.cda.cit.tum.de/) at the [Technical University of Munich](https://www.tum.de/). This includes the following tools:

- {doc}`MQT DDSIM <ddsim:index>`: A Tool for Classical Quantum Circuit Simulation based on Decision Diagrams.
- {doc}`MQT QMAP <qmap:index>`: A Tool for Quantum Circuit Mapping.
- {doc}`MQT QCEC <qcec:index>`: A Tool for Quantum Circuit Equivalence Checking.
- {doc}`MQT QECC <qecc:index>`: A Tool for Quantum Error Correcting Codes.
- [MQT DDVis](https://github.com/cda-tum/mqt-ddvis): A Web-Application visualizing Decision Diagrams for Quantum Computing.
- {doc}`MQT SyReC <syrec:index>`: A Tool for Synthesis of Reversible Circuits/Quantum Computing Oracles.

For a full list of tools and libraries, please visit the {doc}`MQT website <mqt:index>`.

```{include} ../README.md
:start-after: <!-- SPHINX-START -->
:end-before: <!-- SPHINX-END -->
```

```{toctree}
:hidden:

self
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:caption: User Guide

quickstart
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:caption: DD Package Evaluation

dd_package_evaluation
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:titlesonly:
:caption: Developers
:glob:

contributing
support
DevelopmentGuide
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 3
:caption: API Reference

api/mqt/core/index
```

Commit message:

📝 New and improved project documentation (#589)
## Description

This PR brings some quite substantial documentation improvements.
This include extensive documentation for all classes, methods and
functions that are part of the Python package.
It also includes updates to the general documentation building pipeline
that make it easier to write notebooks for docs purely in Markdown and
provide nicer LaTeX output.

This should set the new best practice for writing documentation within
the MQT.

## Checklist:

<!---
This checklist serves as a reminder of a couple of things that ensure
your pull request will be merged swiftly.
-->

- [x] The pull request only contains commits that are related to it.
- [x] I have added appropriate tests and documentation.
- [x] I have made sure that all CI jobs on GitHub pass.
- [x] The pull request introduces no new warnings and follows the
project's style guidelines.

---------

Signed-off-by: burgholzer <burgholzer@me.com>

docs/index.md, after:

# MQT Core - The Backbone of the Munich Quantum Toolkit (MQT)

```{raw} latex
\begin{abstract}
```

MQT Core is an open-source C++17 and Python library for quantum computing that forms the backbone of the quantum software tools developed as part of the _{doc}`Munich Quantum Toolkit (MQT) <mqt:index>`_ by the [Chair for Design Automation](https://www.cda.cit.tum.de/) at the [Technical University of Munich](https://www.tum.de/).
To this end, it consists of multiple components that are used throughout the MQT, including a fully fledged intermediate representation (IR) for quantum computations, a state-of-the-art decision diagram (DD) package for quantum computing, and a state-of-the-art ZX-diagram package for working with the ZX-calculus.
This documentation provides a comprehensive guide to the MQT Core library, including {doc}`installation instructions <installation>`, a {doc}`quickstart guide <quickstart>`, and detailed {doc}`API documentation <api/mqt/core/index>`.
The source code of MQT Core is publicly available on GitHub at [cda-tum/mqt-core](https://github.com/cda-tum/mqt-core), while pre-built binaries are available via [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/mqt.core/) for all major operating systems and all modern Python versions.
MQT Core is fully compatible with Qiskit 1.0 and above.

````{only} latex
```{note}
A live version of this document is available at [mqt.readthedocs.io/projects/core](https://mqt.readthedocs.io/projects/core).
```
````

```{raw} latex
\end{abstract}

\sphinxtableofcontents
```

```{toctree}
:hidden:

self
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:caption: User Guide

installation
quickstart
```

````{only} not latex
```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:caption: DD Package Evaluation

dd_package_evaluation
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:titlesonly:
:caption: Developers
:glob:

contributing
support
DevelopmentGuide
```
````

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 3
:caption: API Reference

api/mqt/core/index
```
